# Introduction to Functional Programming

FP doesn't eliminate effects from programs. Those programs wouldn't do much useful stuff.
It simply constraints way we build our programs, so we limit side-effects to thin outside layer
of out programs where they aren't observable by our 'business' logic.

Example in first part shows simple example of side-effect. This side-effect (charging credit cards) causes
quite few complications. Code isn't easily testable or reuseable, because we need to actually charge card
in tests. As first refactoring we can pass 'dependency' on payments system as argument to function.
This enables writing tests without actual payments, but we still have to manage our test doubles.
We also can't reuse our function, e.g. for batching payments because each payment is new connection
to charging system.

Last (FP) version just returns coffee and charge that we eventualy want to execute against payments system.
This eliminates need for mocks and allows better reusability, because charge is just description
and we can combine it with other charges before we actually contact payment system at the edge of our program.

## Referential transparency

In FP we want to write *pure* functions without side-effect. Pure functions preserve *referential transparency*
of our programs. Referential transparency means that we can substitute every expression in our program with it's
result and our program doesn't change. This naturally means that we can't have any side-effect because those are hidden
from function result and lost if we substitute function call with its result.

We can check that function is referentially transparent by applying *substitutions* and observing result.

## Questions

* What kind of effect can we observe in our programs?
* Does this refactoring make sense and can we easily apply it on something else?
* Does referential transparency make sense?
* Were examples understandable?
* How can we apply this simple principle in existing programs?
