Data structures
===============

This chapter introduces Algebraic Data Types (ADT) and pattern matching.

## Algebraic Data Types

ADTs are great to model data structures, such as linked lists.
ADTs are data types created by combining other types.
Typically, we recognize sum and product types.
Product types are just n-tuples of types, e.g. `Cons(a: A, tail: List[A]`.
Sum types define that type can be A or B or C, e.g. definition of linked list.
In scala, they are defined as sealed traits and set of case classes that extend it.

## Pattern Matching

Pattern matching allows us to destructure expression, e.g. list/tuple/case class.
It tries to match expression to pattern from top to bottom and than evaluates
body of first match.
Patterns can also have guard statements `case Cons(h, t) if h > 0 => ...`
Pattern matching on sealed types must handle all cases, otherwise we get compilation failure.

## Data sharing

Everything in FP must be referentially transparent. This means that functions on functional datastructures
cannot mutate datastructures in place, rather they create new copy of data structure.
This approach simplifies reasoning, but can cause performance bottlenecks.
To fight that, we share part of data structures that weren't modified by function.
We can afford it and don't loose RT because functional datastructures are immutable.

## Questions

* What do ADTs provide us?
* How do they compare to OOP inheritance/composition data hierarchies?
* Is data sharing understandable and do we think it's efficient?
* Why cannot foldRight be tail-recursive?
* How would short-circuiting implementation of foldRight/Left look like?
* Is zipWith definition understandable?
* Should we implement exists/forAll other functions with list primitives like foldRight/Left or should they have their own
  implementations?
